---
draft: True
revision: 1
template: base.html
title: No title yet
tags: []
---

I had been not able to publish a post. I had been approaching writing wrong. Writing is not a process of pumping out what I know. It's a process of exploring what I don't know. Writing is learning rather than producing.

I tried to have a title, a idea before writing, then shaped the post around that central idea. It could work, if I knew an idea inside out. But what things in the world that I fully understand?

The better approach could be: don't make a title, don't make a idea, just write. The piece will be mostly meaningless and be thrown away. It doesn't matter. What I try to achieve is not a post, but an understanding.

Writing text, just like writing code, is pretty cheap. If you don't like some part of your writing? Just edit it. It's not like you've made a car and realize you don't want the spark plug of your engine, it'd be a huge pain to replace it. Unless it's a Toyota, of course. Anyway, my point is, to fix your writing, you just need some keystrokes.

So if writing is inexpensive, what's valuable? Not the text of course. It's the idea behind the text. What's the point of carefully crafting words for an unshaped idea?

Let's your thoughts wandering. Let's them shrink, grow, branch out, and randomly pop up. Writing is capturing them. Making it a meaningful cohesive post should be the last step, and prepare yourself that your thoughts are not worth a write up most of the time. That's ok. You will get away with a little bit more knowing about yourself or the world.

Writing is for capturing thoughts, like photography is for capturing moments. What's the best "camera" to record my thoughts? I am still searching. For now, it's a Vim setup on my Macbook Air. The laptop is light enough to bring almost anywhere. It's not as mobile as a, well, mobile phone, but writing on phones sucks. I could use a phone for recording my voice, though, when I cure my speaking and shyness.
